# Science

<datetime class="hidden">2004-01-05T00:00</datetime>
<!-- category -- mostlylucidcouk, Imported -->

I trained as a Scientist...psychologists are kind of paranoid about being strictly
scientific since it used to be an 'art' - so now all psychologists applyt scientific
method with some rigour. Science is an odd creature and many scientists define themselves
as being the opposite of religious people.

I've always seen science as just another religion...a way to explain what people see
around them using the context currently available to them. Humans have always done
that, when ancient civilisations saw the sunset they took it as the sun entering the
water - their context didn't has the informational content necessary to allow them
to reach any other conclusion - were they wrong to have this belief? No, they were
right at the limit of their understanding, what they believed was entirely consistent
with the facts before them.

Modern science does exactly the same thing - uses the best information available to
provide an explanation of what they see in terms suitable for the current context. 

Take for example the human mind...currently it's seen as a  simple chemical /
electrical / biological interaction - all at scales we understand and can believe
in at the moment. However, as technology advances we should all expect to have our
beliefs challenged and ejnoy the experience - take for example the [Quantum
Theory of Mind](http://members.aol.com/Mszlazak/WhiteheadQT.html) - very difficult to prove, but why not? Should we really expect
the process of evolution to ignore a whole level of scale?

Anyway, what does this all come down to - simple, with all our knowledge and belief
in the power of science we really know very little - we have a limited and incomplete
undestanding of even the most basic processes of our own bodies (case in point - we
still die!). 

All I'm saying is that we don't know everything - the future is exciting - think of
everything waiting to happen!